To run a company well, you have to be in
the and business, not the or business.
You have to drive growth measured by
market share in the short term. You have
to drive innovation or allocate capital
well to position yourself better for the
future. And you have to drive
profitability. But I believe the path to
building a compounder or even a what
some people would say a generational
company through the public markets is
proven.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I thought a interesting place to begin
would be with you telling us the origin
story of your investment philosophy.
We're going to talk deep specifics about
a lot of things in the world today so
that people understand where you're
coming from and how you came to your
philosophy. I just love to begin there
like the key ingredients of the recipe
that's become how you attack and think
about markets. Where did it come from?
Where did it start?
>> There's probably a couple places that
come from so uh one was frankly my own
personal background. So I came into
investment not you know directly out of
school. It's not like I went a finance
pass. I went into politics. I didn't I
wasn't an economics major. I was
actually
an organic chemistry and a history and
technology
major and you know I worked in politics
for many years and
as I started to like try to figure out
what I wanted to do professionally and
eventually I started to think more about
investing and I get got involved in it.
I started to think about um investing
based on a lot of the same principles
that I learned in science, right? In
particularly biology that in order to
have organizations or organisms that
sustain
over a long period of time and kind of
persist much like human beings, they
kind of have to be in balance with their
ecosystem, right? So, you know, you see
it today. I'm I'm a father of two boys
and you see it today, right? When when
when children develop, right, they they
got to basically go through certain, you
know, curves like child, adolescence,
teenager, adult, and they have to
basically be in balance. And if they
are, they can kind of thrive and kind of
do incredible things. And we as human
beings, if we do that, like look at look
at all the success humans have had, you
know, relative to every other species. I
started to think about why shouldn't
investing follow the same rules we see
in science right so why shouldn't
investing mean that um there should be a
healthy balance between companies that
invest in their customers their
employees their shareholders and
actually support their greater
communities and that that really kind of
resonated with me and in many ways I was
lucky too
that I ended up at Euro price early in
my career. And really the guy who became
my mentor, Jack Leaport, this is what he
believed, right? He believed you
invested in small companies, run by
people who thought like owners. They
woke up every day to make themselves
better. They were they gave their uh
employees a good deal. They had good
cultures. They allocated capital. Well,
this is what created companies that
could grow and sustain. And and that was
how he had been so successful over the
25 years he did what he did. That
resonated with me. You know what
happened to me though was a a bit of
good luck, right? Um I was asked um
halfway through my career at Hero Price
to basically go manage the New Horizon
fund and I started reading all the
shareholder letters. Um at that point it
was turning 50. So I actually went into
the archives and basically read the
shareholder letters and tried to
understand what was what drove the
success of this fund over 50 years. At
the time it was the oldest but also most
people would say it was the most
successful from a performance fund small
cap growth fund in the country. And in
doing it I started to realize wow it's
really it was really only 20 stocks over
50 years that drove the performance.
And then um coincidentally Jack or maybe
purposely Jack decided to have a 50th
you know birthday party for the fund and
all the um fund managers came except for
Troll Price himself who managed the fund
but was passed away. And in doing that I
um I talked to one of the managers who
told the story of meeting Sam Walton on
the IPO road show when Walmart first
came public. And for those of you who
don't know Walmart came as a super small
company. It only had 50 stores and
obviously Walmart, you know, became
Walmart. And I went back and I looked
and I was like, "Wow, this is definitely
one of the 20 stocks that mattered."
But actually, unfortunately, it was
sold.
>> They sold it.
>> And the math at the time was the retail
fund, I think I was managing about $8
billion, which was the largest pool of
small cap growth money in the country.
And had the stake in Walmart not been
sold, the stake in Walmart would have
been greater than the sum total of
everything that I was managing. And I'm
not saying people had made bad decisions
before, but actually the math was one
bad decision or maybe you had to make
that decision every day because the
public markets are open every day
actually wiped out all these other good
decisions mathematically than had done.
And so what that caused me to do was at
that point start to really study the
history of the US public market. You
know, since then I think a lot of people
talked about um the Benheimer
study that came out of Chicago.
>> Yeah. The 4% thing,
>> right? And that's true. But at the time
when I did this, no one had actually
asked the simple question in the history
of the US equity market, which is to me
like representative of capitalism.
If there's 4,000 average public stocks,
how many of them truly are great? The
philosophy we have today is predicated
that over a rolling 10-year period, you
have about 40 stocks that compound
wealth at 20% a year or go up a little
bit over 6x. So about 1% of the stock
market is the are the validatorans.
And that's what we want to go do. And
so, you know, since then, right, you you
like a lot of things in life, you get
through looking at lateral examples,
biology, and then you look at anecdotes,
and then if you like to double click or
you're you're maybe a geek on data, you
start to really study it. And then
obviously since then, we've tried to
create an investment philosophy
that maximizes the probability of
investing in those 40 companies. And the
other thing about 80% of those companies
actually start their compounding journey
as small cap companies. And so I always
people always say Henry why do why why
do you love small cap companies? I was
like well I love them because I love the
people side of the job but I also love
them because 80% of them of these great
companies actually start as small cavs.
That's what we're trying to maximize
because we think that's what creates,
you know, long-term wealth and economic
growth. Basically, what we have done is
basically purpose-built um an investment
philosophy and just as importantly tried
to purposely build an investment
organization that can go do that.
>> I want to ask about each your firm is
literally named as an ode to this
concept durable durable long-term
compounding growth for the companies
that you back. give us one more click of
detail on after that original insight.
So you've identified that you want to be
in this group of 40 companies as best
you can possibly approximate. What are
the common elements that you've
discovered that fit your personal and
your team style that are indicators that
you might have one on your hands? And I
know you do latestage private investing
as well. So you're you're looking at
these companies and when they're, you
know, at or near their IPO. Um, we'll
talk about going public later on and and
why that's valuable, but what have you,
what have you refined to be the most
important signposts of a company that
might be one of these 1% validictorians?
If you've been one before, you have a
higher probability of being one again,
[laughter]
right? Which just sounds so simple, but
is actually really interesting. We look
at who who has actually done it. And if
we don't really know the company and we
haven't studied before, we'll go double
click and go essentially study it, see
if there's an opportunity, but if not,
go do a case study on it, right? So, we
want to go learn it. One of my partners,
Anukate, basically um you know teaches a
class at Colombia Business School, the
value analysis program. And partially
this is our way of kind of going back to
school as an organization and partially
it's our way of giving back to our
community. But you know the class is
based on this and the students literally
do about six case studies a year but
over time you kind of build out a
library of them. You just start by
basically studying the ones who've done
it and then obviously trying to study
the patterns of those who've done it.
Right? So that that that's that's number
one on how we do it. Second of all,
they're diversified across the economy.
So, you know, look, we're in a period of
time where what's going on is and AI is
so impactful. My view on the impact of
this is probably no different than a lot
of the other speakers you've had. I
would say what I think about when I
think about the power of AI and really
studying it, I don't only think about
the companies that are the first or
second derivatives or maybe people were
categorized as technology companies. I
also think about the existing
diversified companies outside of the
technology space
that could be huge companies here. So as
an example when you go back and you look
at the era of cloud and mobile you know
for sure you wanted to go own Amazon in
that period of time but actually if you
look at retail once Walmart and Costco
really understood what Amazon was doing
but still had relative scale they
leveraged their advantages and since
they basically you know got on the same
curve 62% of all retail has gone to
those three. So for sure one might have
been better than the other, but actually
all three were good. What What was the
best Russell 2000 growth or for your
investors who don't know benchmarks um
small cap company over that 10-year
period in the 2010s? Well, actually it
was Domino's Pizza,
>> which you know is is was a modest growth
company. It didn't have didn't average
10% growth over the period of time. Why
was Domino's so good? Well, it turned
out, having gone back and studied
Domino's from the beginning, but
obviously owned the stock for some
period of time, the pizza market in the
United States, when Domino's basically
started its run, you basically had a
third of the market that was like local.
So, probably like a lot of um listeners,
I have my favorite local pizza place and
I like it because the pizza's great. And
then the the other third we know, right?
There's the Nationals, Domino's, Papa
John's, Little Caesars, others. And then
the middle third, there used to be in DC
this place called Arman's that had had
about 30 places and they had, you know,
local or geographic scale, but they
didn't have the scale of Domino's and
they didn't have great pizza. And what
happened was when Domino's started its
run, well, first of all, it started by
basically making the product a little
bit better. But if you talk to Patrick
Doyle, you know, who was CEO at the time
and you really study it, what they
started doing was if there's three value
equations in pizza, it's quality, value,
and convenience. And what they realized
is if we really really invest in
technology,
we can make convenience a lot better.
And so they really invested in their
app, built a direct relationship with
their customer
very early on. and they could then
target that customer more efficiently
with couponing, what have you, drive
scale through that box. And then when
you basically do something well, right,
you improve the product, probably was
slightly above average, you really
iterate on convenience and now you have
a direct relationship with those
customers. All of a sudden, actually the
brand halo started getting a little bit
better, right? Because you put all that
together against a wonderful business
model of a franchise business model
which is you know ROI light you end up
with a great stock. And so one of the
things we think a lot about at durable
is which of the companies that are in
distribution trucking who are already
good and maybe investing on a different
curve have the ability to use AI
to either substantially lower their
their relative cost advantage versus
their competition,
gain more revenue scale, and then
reinvest that in a way where you create
something that's permanent over the
companies that maybe get to this late if
they ever get to it. And often those are
the best stocks when you go study the
markets because you're already in a in a
physical world business where the
technology advantage transitions into a
physical mode advantage or distribution
or scale advantage. That's one of the
patterns we've ser we've observed. We
call that you know the good to great
thesis internally.
>> And then the second way is people. If I
think about um the investments we have
today, we tend to be in business with um
certain people we've known for 20 years
now and maybe they're doing the same
thing or maybe doing they're doing the
next thing but we think these are the
type of people who build great
organizations
and then obviously we have to meet new
people too. So um one of our um largest
holdings is Dualingo right? So we
first um spent real time with the CEO
Luis Vonwin um during COVID you know and
you know during the COVID era um as the
markets reopened you know they went to
highs and the private markets were white
hot you know in the zero interest rate
environment and you know people were
meeting people on Zoom and I remember
meeting Louise you know with my
colleague Julio I called Julio up and I
was like what do you think and he was
like well it's a super impressive
business and they're they're leading
their market, you know, they're
[clears throat] they're on the right
side of their consumer and the product's
great. And I said, "Yeah." I said,
"Louis reminds me of Toby from Shopify,
>> right? The last time I spent time with
someone that technologically strong,
right, Louise had been um head of AI and
ML at Carnegie Melon, but also has that
much business clarity and is so crystal
clear at communicating that he can make
complex topics simple that even I can
understand them was when I spent time
with Toby when Shopify was private and I
said, "We're going to basically clear
our schedule and whenever Luis will
spend time with us as in Pittsburgh,
we're going to go spend time with him.
And so I think the understanding of the
patterns and having studied them, the
understanding of
what creates the environment, Sakori is
famous for saying why now and what could
lead that not only on the technology
side but across the economy. But I think
the clarity you have when you've spent
time with you know at this point
thousands of executives and you have
seen the ones who've done it you want to
do more with them and then you have seen
the ones who are trying to do it but
remind you so clearly of the ones who
have done it. Can you say a little bit
more about this notion of act two teams
and management teams and why that is an
interesting concept to you when you're
thinking about the relationship between
an act 2 team and a potentially very
durable compounding company? This is
something that is so dear to me because
one, it's something we invest in, but
two, it's actually at the heart of
durable itself, right? And it's one of
the reasons that I think durable is just
different than other investment firms
because we ourselves were an act 2 team,
>> right?
>> At my prior prior firm, I invested in uh
workday when they were about at hund00
million of revenue scale. The two
co-founders of workday Anneil Bushri and
Dave Dufffield had basically been the
people who had pioneered
HR systems of record in the previous
client server world. So they were they
were literally the people who built
peopleoft scale peopleoft and then a lot
of history there but there was there was
basically a very aggressive takeover by
Oracle and so in many ways they had felt
they had frankly completed their vision
and so they came together but what
really also lit up the vision was um
cloud. Now this sounds so obvious today.
>> Yeah.
>> But you know in 2012 when we invested in
workday [clears throat]
I think a lot of the understanding of
the cloud was not as obvious by
investors and frankly I'm not sure I
fully understood it either. But what I
did understand was this was an act 2
team. There's a bunch of the stuff you
have to build into the product that for
lack of a better word is uh exception
management. And if you don't understand
that exception management because you
have done it before, you're you're going
to not properly be able to do it. And
because this was an actu team,
they actually knew how to leverage the
modern technology
but also build the system of record in
the way it dealt with the edge cases at
super scale. Obviously, they also
understood
what segment of the market to go after
and then how to serve it.
And I, you know, that to me is
the image we have at durable when we
look at an entrepreneur
who has solved and successfully won a
product product, you know, in a product
area or an area of business, but now
wants to go do it again. And there's you
know huge advantage when you go do it
again right you are essentially solving
the same problem with you know total
clarity at the beginning. The other
thing is if you've been successful,
it allows you to align
all ports of the organization, the
people, the organizational structure,
the investors exactly how you want to go
do it. You know, Max Levkin, right? So,
a lot of people know Max obviously. He's
one of the co-founders of PayPal
and um
know we we first invested in Max
actually. It's one of my first private
investments in my whole career. We
invested in Sly, [laughter] right? And
for many years until recently, we're now
investors in a firm. I used to joke Max
I'm I'm like the only investor in Max
who hasn't made a lot of money,
[laughter]
right? But um with all jokes aside, Max
to me represents, you know, the best of
a an act two entrepreneur, right? For
those of you who don't have the benefit
of knowing Max, first of all, he truly
understands technology and he really
understands how it can be used in very
complex systems to solve problems. He
can recruit exceptional people because
he speaks their language. He's also a
very good leader and people believe in
him. He's also exceptionally resilient,
right? And so Max is a perfect example
of like an act two entrepreneur
>> um that we had we had already been in
business with. And when you look at the
you know if if durable does anywhere
from 5 to 10
new investments a year right with a lot
of times it actually is with act two
entrepreneurs
>> and then if we're lucky and this happens
because of compounding relationship for
having done this for 20 years a lot of
times it's with people that actually we
were investors in their previous act and
I think that's also great right because
they know us and we know them. We know
each other's strengths and we know
exactly how we can help each other and
you know look this is this is like the
maxes of the world and the anals of the
world get to do business who with who
they want but I think what it allows
them to do is with a clean sheet of
paper decide who we want they want to be
in business with but obviously from our
standpoint we we don't do a lot of new
things and it allows us to basically
really align our resources to support
them. What changed the most in your own
act two? So, as you structured durable
itself to be have the same features of
the companies that you're looking at
investing in, last a long time, do
really well, be tightly aligned, like
all these things that you're
referencing, what were the biggest
learnings that you took with you and
that you jettisoned coming from uh your
first first act to your second act?
>> Actually, I almost named Durable Act 2
Capital by the way.
>> Oh, wow.
>> It was such a prominent view
>> in what I was trying to do. We talked a
little bit about the investment
philosophy. I mean, the investment
philosophy is really simple. Let's
invest in small companies
that can compound over time and become,
you know, large companies. And what's
our advantage that we bring over other
investors? I think we think we're great
at people and understanding change. So
basically everything we do at Durable
because we're an investment driven firm
is in support of that investment
mission. Essentially with a clean sheet
of paper said if we were going to go
purpose build an investment vehicle to
allow us to do this,
how would it actually be structured? So
you know essentially the percent of
capital that we put in the public
markets in the private markets is is
aligned against that and then
organizationally
how are we going to go align against
this right so the way we think about
people is very purposeful we um really
believe that very few people actually
operate the way we do we think durable
is just different my partner Katherine
who when we first underwrote Figma in
and also when we led the investment
round in 21, you know, is the same
person who basically was at the all
hands meeting with Figma when Dylan
announced to the um company that they
were going public and is still the
person that basically looks at the
company when they um announced their
public earnings and what have you. I
mean, that's just different, right? So
you have to have people who can, you
know, work with companies that are
valued at two billion and and they're
are private and have 30 million of run
rate revenue. And now, you know, Figma
is a billion two companies, a public
company, and can continue to work on
that. And investment firms aren't
structured that way. So if you want to
have people who can do that, you got to
develop them internally. Second of all,
it's time allocation, right? So in
general um at any point in time we
probably have 10 15% of our capital in
the private markets and the rest in the
public markets and then we have to be
willing to spend the appropriate time on
new ideas right so when we look at
Dualingo and the right decision for
Dualingo and maybe the right decision
for us is is only to invest you know $20
million we don't look at it as a $20
million investment on a $15 billion
vehicle And you know, we don't look at
it as 10 basis points or 12 basis
points. We actually look at it as our
future compounder,
right? Our investment memos are just
fundamentally written different than
other investment firms, right? So when
when we look at an early stage growth
company that is not already
competitively advantaged, we write the
memo that says if Duelingo does what we
think it can do over the next three
years, not only do we make a fair return
for the risk of the company, but at that
point in time, we would want to buy more
at these higher prices. And if we can't
write the memo that we want to buy more
at higher prices, we can't buy the
shares and our thesis can't be it gets
bought. That has to be aligned. And then
the investors we're in business with, we
have incredible investors. We have to be
transparent with them that in order to
pursue this philosophy,
we're going to have
what people would say is monthly or
quarterly volatility in our performance,
right? when they look look at our
performance. And that sounds so obvious,
but you know, increasingly the market
has changed
where capital is short cycle, right?
Like so many people are on one month
basically incentive models, not even
yearly, one month. And so we have to
have been very transparent with our
investors and told them what we're
trying to do, deliver on those promises,
but deliver on those promises over the
right period of time. I'm so intrigued
by this uh like dollar cost averaging up
concept that you're not willing to
invest in the first place if you're not
excited to if it goes well invest more
at higher prices and is is that the
right way to think about it that the way
you build a position over time is um
investing more as the price goes up to
build your fullsome position.
>> Yes and no. There's really two parts of
our portfolio, right? So when we're
looking at um what we call early stage
growth companies and it could be
Dualingo as a private company
or it could be uh Dualingo after it goes
public but it's still not competitively
advantaged at that point in time it
didn't have cash flow it didn't have PE
ratios we still in our view view that as
an early stage growth company where
we're saying in the future could be
competitively advantage the operating
culture could be clearly estab
established where we could look back and
see the excellence of it and the
adaptability of it and then we could
look at the growth formula and really
understand it and obviously along the
way we've really believe this these are
our kind of people who can scale
organizations when we look at the 3 plus
three we're underwriting it on a
three-year basis in general not always
if it does what we think it can we would
then want to buy more as it in our
lexicon gets bigger but also derisks and
then proves to be a competitively
advantaged business and th shows more
resilience and and shows the ability to
you know financially balance growth,
profitability, innovation basically
prove its ability in the case of
Dualingo to become more of a just a
power app teaching you know um speakers
a foreign language for more
self-improvement that it starts to do it
for learning that basically increases
educational ability to participate in
the economic world. Right? they're
obviously going to different subject
with chess. So as you progress
as a business more towards you know what
we view as a competitively advantaged
business that's for lack of a better
word baked but still has growth. We
underwrite those with the view that if
it does that scenario we would want to
buy more and if not we just can't get
involved. Now, in my career, I've
invested in over a hundred private
companies and I think I've been involved
in over 50 IPOs.
And then how many of them do we still
own? Well, we probably still own more
than anyone else in the markets, right?
Like even if I look at durable, among
our largest positions in the public
markets are Door Dash, Affirm,
Toast. We led those last private rounds,
right? And so
yeah, they persisted and we kind of
bought more
>> right at different points on the curve.
I would say on a durable growth company
because of market volatility and you
know this kind of agency principle that
I think about that's forcing people to
have you know short cycle view of the
public markets actually probably you're
buying more of them when they're down
right so um you know one of our favorite
entrepreneurs is a guy named Jay Henik
essentially CEO of Collars but he was
also the founder of first service and we
own both of them we're actually involved
in a private investment with him. Also,
in the case of Collers, I think it's a
very misunderstood company. I think for
sure the brand suggests it's a
commercial real estate broker and
commercial real estate brokers don't do
well in general when interest rates are
high. But I think what's misunderstood
about Jay and he's done this time and
time again is because of his
understanding of he was really a
disciple and his mentor was Peter
Ducker. his understanding of local
incentives and his sharpness of capital
allocation and the way he sets up the
partnership model when he buys people.
What people haven't realized is he's
built a much an incredible business both
in um asset management on the real
estate side in Harrison Street and also
he's building a terrific consulting
platform. And so I think our insight
there is starts with Jay but it starts
with understanding actually the asset
quality of callers is not the quality of
a commercial real estate firm that's
cyclical. It's actually a really good
real estate asset manager and a emerging
really strong consulting firm. And so
last year when people were worried
about, you know, the weak commercial
real estate market and interest rates,
we bought a lot more of that company
when it was it sold off based on
short-term, you know, macro concerns.
Yeah. So in that part of the portfolio
probably we're buying more of the
companies when they go down.
>> You said something really important and
interesting that I'd love to dive into
which is the principal agent problem.
And my question is [clears throat] a
market structure question. We've talked
before about some crazy percentage of
just marginal volume that happens inside
of the platforms the you know citadels
millenniums balasnese 72s of the world.
How are how do you feel that? And I'm
curious just for your thoughts on
changes to market structure in general
since you've been doing this. Uh how it
contributes to that volatility, what
opportunities it creates, what dangers
it creates.
>> It's something I thought a lot about. I
started thinking a lot about it two
years ago and in hindsight I probably
started should have started thinking
hard about it you know you know three
years ago but but you know you don't you
don't get everything right. There was a
period in my career where the quant
funds really started to do great. the
two, you know, the two sigas of the
world.
And, you know, one of the things I've I
we really stress at durable is humility,
right? So, we never look at a problem
and assume we're right and the other
person's wrong. And we never assume
we're good and the other person's bad.
We actually look at things and assume
the other person's really smart and what
can we go learn from them. And so this
this relates back to for you know I
found it durable but I went and I
studied the quants and what I concluded
was
the short-term alpha game is probably
going to be won by the machines paired
with the humans and at the time it was
when for the first time computers paired
with machines could beat the best human
chess player. Mhm.
>> And this is obviously um when I went
went to spend time, you know, with the
principal at Two Sigma, I learned he was
doing exceptionally well. But anyway, um
I got to know him and we talked a lot
and I realized actually there were very
there were real limitations to what the
quants could do. And so I started
realizing if it's a repeat actor problem
based on
known data actually the quants are
pretty good. So what does that mean at
the time? Well, it means if if you're
just a person who buys an industrial
company because the PMI is down and
historically when the PMI rerates and
gets better and you make money, that's
not going to work.
>> The machines are just going to be better
at that than you. But if you're like
what we were at the time, people who are
really good at understanding people and
really good at understanding change,
that was really advantaged. And I
basically at my old firm, you know, I
did a internal kind of teaching on man
versus machine. And I said, as a result,
what what the New Horizon fund is going
to go do is we're going to go double
down on these two things
>> and we're going to get better at them.
>> We're going to get more focused on what
we do on the people's side of our
business, both in the public and private
market. And we're going to get more
focused on where change
impacts both our early stage growth
companies and our durable growth
companies and where we're basically
investing where we're
not advantaged versus these machines.
Probably shouldn't have done it anyway,
but we're going to stop doing it.
[laughter]
But we did it, of course, all within our
investment philosophy. And that's
basically what we've done at Durable as
we've gone and studied Millennial and
Citadels. First, let me be very clear,
deeply respect those organizations. I
think they're great at what they do. And
I actually believe the people who work
there are very talented and we start
from the view that these are
exceptionally talented people who are
actually very good at what they do and
are high quality people. But what we
have said is
what do they do and what is the
limitation? And one of the limitations
is if you work at a firm that deeply
measures your risk every day and then if
you have a bad period of time measured
by a month, but certainly three months
you get your capital cut back and you
there's a good chance you get let go. It
probably means you can't have a time
horizon longer than your career horizon.
And what we also have noticed because we
we not only understand things
anecdotally, we also study them. If you
look at the last public market earning
season, which was companies reporting Q2
this past year,
if you study earnings volatility,
it was more volatile than any earning
season since the financial crisis. Even
though during the financial crisis as we
all know the fundamental banking system
in the US was under question which meant
the economy and the markets as we know
it really had a wide dispersion of
opportunity and the markets tend to be a
lot more volatile when they're making
lows and making highs and yet this was
the most volatile earning season. I
think the reason for that is just
basically the fact that you know we
estimate somewhere between 80 and 90% of
the institutional flow is basically
driven either
by the firms that have one month and
three month agency or the quants that
have to take these price signals into
account and then their models are
optimized for this. And so what we have
said at durable is really simple. Let's
go do less so we can do more.
Because if we're going to accept
volatility
in stocks, we have to really understand
the business and the people like we do
at Collers such that if Collars is down
because people are worried about
commercial brokerage because of interest
rates, actually the markets are probably
right.
>> They're probably right 90% of the time.
But if we understand what's unique about
that culture, how they allocate capital,
we understand deeply how the quality of
that Harrison Street is because we've
studied it for 20 years and we we know
the people who run it. Well, that's
that's a reason why we're willing to
basically lean into that stress. You
know, the same thing when I look at our
early stage growth portfolio, you know,
we I spoke about Dualingo earlier. you
know, they they came public, you know,
the last time the capital markets were
really open to companies, which was
2021.
And there's been a lot written about the
2021 IPO class, right? How they came
public in a zero interest rate
environment and how many so many of
these companies actually were going to
have a tough time getting to
profitability and as as interest rates
went up in 22, I think correctly, a lot
of people said actually just throw them
all out, right? the the average loss
making company in 2022
in the Russell 2000 growth went down
over 70%.
>> You know, our view was
makes sense. The market's probably
right, but not all of these,
you know, can't adapt. You know, not all
these don't have businesses that are
good enough to make real economic
returns. Our view is not all of these
companies didn't have the discipline and
the organizational fortitude to
transition and become successful
companies in a in a world that actually,
you know, required profitability based
on the change of interest rates. And so,
you know, Dolingo is an example of a
company that we actually bought more of
in 22. Um, and that was an example of an
early stage growth company that we
dollar cost averaged down, right? And
that I think we're advantaged in, right?
Because if you're rulebased in what you
do or you have a one or three month time
frame, you just can't
own Duelingo. You can't own more
callers. You said people and change.
We'll talk more about both, but starting
with change. We're in the midst of
probably the biggest technology shift or
change maybe that any of us will ever
see. You've invested and lived through
several others, internet, mobile, cloud.
Can you put this one in frame of
reference with the other ones that
you've lived through and you mentioned
so many times studying the past and
studying history and seeing patterns?
What patterns do you think might apply
this time? And what patterns do you need
to throw out and and re-underwrite from
first principles here?
>> So, I started writing about AI and our
shareholder letters in 22.
>> Yeah. you know and at the time I said
having seen internet cloud and mobile
this is going to be at least as powerful
as internet and I said we're going to go
approach this with humility go spend
time with the people who are closest to
it
and constantly be learning and then I
also said we're durable is not a
thematic investing firm or a compounding
investing firm so just because we think
something's going to be big doesn't mean
we're [laughter] going to go put our
investment meetings aren't going to be
AI is going to be big. Let's go buy AI
companies. It's going to be let's really
understand change and then understand
how it the companies that we invest in
are going to basically benefit from it
or become better by it or at least not
get disrupted. I'll lay out in a second
think it probably is more impactful
uh than the internet was. It's not only
going to affect obviously every
technology company which you know you
see in the markets but it's also
going to impact in this case I think
almost every company that you know needs
white collar employee and IP employee to
drive their work. So let let me start
with the second one first because I
think less people have talked about that
one. So, as a student of business, most
people would know that by the end of the
2010s, everyone knew that if you were a
product based business, you needed to
understand your China cost, right? I
mean, it was kind of on the cover of
every business magazine and then every
um popular magazine in the tens. And
basically all that meant was if you in
in a global supply chain,
if there was a part of the world with
huge scale and resources like China in
the Far East that could make product
substantially cheaper when you landed
it, you know, at your factory or to the
consumer, you had to understand it and
if you didn't leverage it yourself, you
were going to basically
go go out of business.
That was the first derivative. The
second derivative is actually there's a
lot of businesses that are spread
businesses. You know, you look at a lot
of distribution businesses as an
example. If you distribute, you talk
about a great business like HVAC, the
industry tends to put a spread on the
raw material. If your HBAC unit
basically inflates at 3 to 5%, that's
good. And if your HVAC, you know,
deflates at 3 to 5%, that's bad. And so
if you were a spread business on top of
it, you know, that was problematic.
Every company that was product based or
derivative product based had to
understand China cost. And I think the
same thing applies to AI. But I think
it's not product based this time. It's
you know IP based. So let's go let's go
back to Max as an example. So, a firm
most people would think about and
correctly so as, you know, basically a
fintech company that basically empowers
people to get access to credit in a safe
way and actually pretty compliant,
friendly way with no tricks. And he's
doing even more than that now. But at
the end of the day, because he is
regulated,
he has a lot of
legal cost in the company, right? He's
got hundreds of thousands of contracts
with merchants. He's got to monitor his
partners on how they basically
communicate credit. And that just
requires a lot of people. And if you
talk to him and he's talked publicly
about this, he's got great belief that a
firm can grow at the rates it's growing
at for a reasonable period of time. In
addition, they can do it without adding
headcount. And the reason for that
obviously he's going to go lean out a
lot of processes that were not possible
to go do before AI. I'll tell you a
really funny story with that. So he
calls, you know, I I I learned so much
from him. So I I talked to him one day
after he reports earnings and he
explains to me, Henry, this what you
know, you're always asking me about how
I'm using AI to become more efficient
and you know, I feel like I was late to
the curb, but I finally figured it out.
And so he says, you know, I have this
team that goes around the company and
understands processes and we start from
not a cost standpoint, but we start from
a leaning out standpoint. And I think
like I'm making real progress there. And
that's why I'm able to make this public
pronouncement.
And he's like, isn't this great?
>> [laughter]
>> I say to Max,
why don't you come to DC and let's go
see Mitch Rails
>> because Danaher,
you know who who he and his brother
started and he's chairman of has been
doing this for 40 years. You know, it's
called DBS. And they basically brought
Kaizen, you know, back to the US. And
they basically started, they're
obviously more of a healthcare company
now, by going into factories, putting
processes up in whiteboards,
studying how they could lean them out,
basically leaning them out and coming
back in a month later to make sure that
because change is hard that the change
is held. And then they basically built a
whole b business system which has
basically you know not only helped build
Danaher but you know there's basically
over a dozen Fortune 500 CEOs in the
United States who basically started
their jobs at Danaher including the guy
who just have turned around GE. So since
you're so excited about this let's
actually go to the you know essentially
the
>> the teacher of the godfather in the
United States. So the reason I say that
is this is just so profound it's even
hard to get your head around right that
we've been able
you know Mitch would say for 40 years
because at China we've been able to
really lean out
product based businesses working capital
but in many ways I feel like we're just
getting started
on processes that are done by humans.
The second example that I'll talk about
and I'm talk trying to talk about things
that haven't been talked about as much
on this show. When I first really
understood what was going on the
internet, I ran a global TMT fund and my
largest investment was Amazon, right?
And we invested in that one. It was like
a $10 billion company. So I used to go
to Seattle twice a year. So
interestingly things you remember
because it was far from Baltimore. not
no one would come with me and it was a
small company and people thought I
understood it and I used to go you know
have lunch twice a year with Jeff Bezos
right at the time I worked for the firm
that was his largest outside shareholder
and it was obviously my research
position for the firm
and what I learned so many things from
those meetings but one of the things I
learned is the very best businesses that
leverage technology leverage it in a way
where they use it to lower costs
and drive revenue
that result in them gaining 30% or more
incremental market share in their end
market. And then they take that unity
economic advantage
and they reinvest it in something that
is persistent.
even if their competition were to wake
up tomorrow and do the exact same thing
with people just as good as they are.
>> And to me, you know, that's one of the
definitions of durable of a competitive
advantage is if your competitor
basically does a competitive mode attack
doing the exact same thing with people
as well or
>> doesn't matter too far ahead. And as we
all have come to understand with Amazon,
they took that 3 to 5% cost advantage of
of getting that box to you and their
ability to put more than one box, one
item in the box, and they use that
economic advantage to then go build
fulfillment centers that are physical to
basically reinvest
into capital and infrastructure that
allow them to go down that 3 to 5% cost
curve for 20 years. And then, you know,
as I said earlier in the show, they woke
up And the only people who could play
their game when eventually everyone
realized what they were doing were the
people who still had the scale and the
customer relationships and the trust of
Walmart and Costco. And then eventually
when they figured it out, all three of
them were great. Now the problem is the
rest, you know, the rest of retail was
not was not so good.
>> And so that's what we think about here.
So, if I if I say it back to you, we're
about we've seen through Mitch and
others like him this 40-year benefit of
Kaizen brought to physical product world
and that AI represents a sort of kickoff
of Kaizen to human work world and that
that is going to have lots of stories
like the Amazon story you just said
where someone gets on one of these
curves early and they can't be caught.
And so, you're trying, I'm sure, define
who those people might be. So, we're
trying to do two things, Patrick. We're
trying to find the people who that might
be. And then we're trying to make sure
we don't get
>> mistakenly own [laughter] a company that
based on last generation competitive
risk was a great company and and
correctly we thought was competitively
advantaged and had a good operating
culture and was led by highquality
people who thought like owners, but
because discontinuous change changed the
world, they weren't able to adapt. Now,
ideally what we go do is we go find
those already advantaged companies and
then they leverage this to go from good
to great. If you think about all the
people that have navigated change as
CEOs, the best that you've worked with,
I'm an investor with Dave Duffield in
his latest company and so he comes to
mind because now he's tackling AI. Um,
and the guy is incredible. If you think
about whether it's Mitch or Jeff or Dave
or you know people like this that you've
seen operate, what methods have you
impressed you the most of how they
themselves adapt first their own
mentality and then their teams to these
fast changing circumstances? And this is
a question for everyone out there that's
running businesses that is facing this
same change that's a risk and an
opportunity at the same time.
>> Yeah. So let's let's go pick on Luis,
right? We talked about Luis earlier,
right? So,
Dualingo has a lot of opportunity with
AI and a lot of risk, right? And the
stock depending on the day reflects it,
right? Like when Open AI demos
how you can use Open AI to basically do
translation,
a lot of times the stock goes down. or
when Apple shows you how
AirPods can be used to
in the physical world live translation
the stock goes down and actually I don't
think the marker's wrong those now it's
probably wrong the magnitude but I think
what the market is saying is
>> risk
>> there's a risk here so
that that's probably in our portfolio
one of the higher risk names but what do
we look for in you know in Louise or Max
or or Dave, you know, Duffield. I think
the first thing we look about is
um a business that already is operating
well,
right? Because
if you're not operating well
when you have to deal with change,
you're you're not going to be able to
like do two things at once, right? You
can't do a turnaround and do well. I
think the second thing we would say is a
business that already was winning
in its you know first end market right
so you know all the definitions we would
have about winning right you know
substantially gaining market share
driving real economic profit that allows
it to reinvest in this next scurve and
also the other thing we really care
about is
people. We we really stress resiliency
at durable. It's one of the reasons we
like so much investing in act two
managers, right? We can go study their
resiliency, right? So when you're when
you're an investor in Max and you saw
how resilient he was in slide
and now you understand how he's got to
be resilient
to implement AI to lean out his cost and
drive his revenue before his competition
does. you're like, we've seen him, you
know, under stress before, right? And
then, um, you know, I think you're
looking for people who have a
perspective, can execute, but also are
humble, right? Because
we at durable write down our views on AI
every six months and we updated them.
And as we've gone more into this period
of change, probably we're less wrong,
our our perspective is more informed,
you would say, than it was, you know, as
we change it every 6 months. But we're
we're learning, right? And this is we
have the benefit of having a job that
allows us spend our time reading and
thinking and talking to smart people. So
even if these are really talented
people, most likely they don't have as
much time to go do it as we we do. And
we have to be very humble in our
approach. So they have to be a have a
perspective figure out how to go do this
not be paralyzed but they also have to
be humble and constantly learning. And
you know the last thing I think
practically we have to think about as
investors is backs to the memo like if
you have a high-risisk situation
which we would all agree Duelingo is and
you know a firm is and you're really
close to that part of the change then
you need to be compensated for the risk.
What we would tell people on Duelingo is
yeah like because of this risk the
discount rate has gone up but probably
commensurate the opportunity has also
gone up. we can articulate it, right?
He's Luis has uh talked about being 20x
faster and generating content and we've
already seen it. You know, he's publicly
said he developed chess, which is doing
incredibly well and you know, my kids
really love that product. I mean,
they're addicted to it. And he de first
it was two people for six months and
then he added another four people and he
developed a product in nine months.
That's the best product he's ever done.
And if you ever talk to him, how long
would it have taken in the past? He's
like, I don't know. I probably need four
to six x as many people and it would
have taken them four times as long. And
so you could say a startup could do
that, but he's doing it. He's doing it
on his platform. That product is well
over a million
um DAUs and is growing at astronomical
rates and it's a great underserved end
market. It could be a huge business.
Yes, the discount rate has gone up, but
this company was purpose-built for AI.
You actually have a person who, you
know, studied AI and taught it at
Carnegi Melon and has an organization of
a players who are agile in his company
and is humble and constantly learning a
proof point on how he it's making him
faster than other people. it's driving
real value and obviously that means the
probability of it going from a point
solution or couple products to the suite
is higher
>> and so you know that's what we look for.
Can I stack a couple of the things that
you've said that interest me the most
into like a big even bigger question? If
I take physical kaizen and digital
kaizen just to, you know, shrink the
concepts down. If I were to have those
that were to have a kid, it might be
robotics. And and so I'm really curious
how you approach the potential with an
unknown timeline that we might get like
a second wave of, you know, the physical
labor economy is way bigger than the the
digital labor economy that we may get a
second application of Kaizen um over the
next 40 years like the first one we saw
from Mitch Mitching Company. How do you
think how do you think about that
opportunity and potential change? It's
something we have really thought hard
about and
here here's what I what what we have
tried to do right so first of all we
have tried to get smart by by meeting
with the entrepreneurs
and talking to the companies that we're
involved in that we know that are
leading this area just to try to learn
and we only recently did this with robot
otic. So if we started writing down our
conclusions
and then being humble that it could
change every you know 6 months in AI in
what you would say is more data
businesses or digital businesses.
We only started doing this literally in
the last month where we documented it
for the first time.
And so
I'm gonna I'm gonna do something that I
don't love to do, which I know our views
here are very early and probably deeply
wrong, but I'll give you all our initial
conclusions, right? Which is in certain
use cases, it's pretty clear that
already the cost is lower than the um
equivalent analog process or basically
>> physical labor process.
>> Physical label process. And yet, as we
all know, this is the earliest and worst
robotics is going to be. And because
machines are iterating with machines and
it's being powered by general purpose
models, not by specific purpose models,
this is riding, you know, a curve that
is definitely geometric. And so back to
this mental model of Amazon that drives
so much of what we think about
durability at durable is
what Amazon was able to do is ride
a cost curve where they were deflating
the cost of
sending a box out at 3 to 5%
a year for 20 straight years. And the
people who did not leverage the right
distribution infrastructure,
the right investment in robotics at that
time, you know, they bought KA,
the right ML models when they came into
play about how to basically plan
inventory and deal with suppliers
actually were probably at a curve that
probably inflated at 3 to 5% but at best
were flat. And that differential in a
low margin business, you know, you
compound it over five years. Honestly,
that's all you need to know.
And that's I think what we're starting
to get our heads around at durable,
which is if in many areas robotics is
at par. Now there's a lot of data that
says it's lower cost in certain cases
and the use cases are about to go up and
the cost on the existing use cases
probably don't go down at 3 to 5% at
this point in the curve because of the
scale brought in the human capital
brought in the IP bot on and the fact
that you're going to be able to use
these general purpose LLMs to power it.
It probably goes down at more like 15 to
20%. But maybe it's more law and it goes
down even faster. Well, then we wake up
in 5 years and the people who put
themselves on one cost curve, if they
compete against the people who put them
onelves on the other cost curve,
those could be power law businesses.
What we have thought really hard about
is who's going to go benefit from this
curve where their competition even if
they woke up tomorrow
even if they put the same amount of
money into this problem even if they
could hire the same quality of people
which is unlikely because they have not
invested
in the distribution infrastructure or
the technological infrastructure to
compete on this curve.
you know, at minimum is probably two to
three years behind and every day, you
know, that they they wait, they're
probably getting further behind. It's
apparent to everyone at Durable why our
understanding of change has been great
for our investments in Dualingo and a
firm and you know, Shopify.
But actually I think it's about to be
really advantaged our understanding of
people and change as we go invest in the
other 70% of the economy.
>> If you think about all the businesses
you backed do you have a favorite
[snorts] kind of competitive advantage
of source of competitive advantage? So
much about your whole process is does it
have it already? Is it on its trajectory
to get there? There's different kinds
you know scale network effects etc. Are
there favorites that you find yourself
returning to as the best sources of
long-term competitive advantage?
>> I love physical
real estate,
>> right? You know, I I love Amazon or, you
know, we're investors in Carvana. I love
their reconditioning centers because at
the end of the day,
>> you can't spin those things up.
>> You can't spin those things up. They're
these things that are super messy,
right? You got to acquire the land. You
got to put in the right place. You got
to build the right network. Then you got
to go stand it up with the right capex
and the right systems. And then you have
to have the right operating culture. And
this is really really hard, right? And
if if you put your your real estate in
the wrong place, then your your cost of
transport's more expensive. And
this culture you got to go build there
is super hard.
So I I I deeply love you know these
physical world modes that exist right
and really our portfolio has a lot of
them right in one way or the other and
that's why when you and I talked about
robotics my mind went to distribution
[laughter] right it's like where can
robotics basically take already
advantaged businesses and make them more
advantaged right but
>> there's others
and then you know the other thing I I
really believe is is these soft things
that are incredibly hard, right? So I I
I I think about
the example of Dan or her so much,
right? Because what Mitch and Steve have
done
is just stunningly hard to imagine that
for nearly 40 years you've compounded
wealth
at 20%.
in something that didn't have deep
physical modes or didn't have data
network effects like uh metamite or
Google have or or the people who believe
deeply in open AI and I I see the
potential there just like they do have
right so
those those data network effects are
amazing right where you know the but the
ones where you're really sharp on human
capital.
You're really sharp on what talent
really means. Not not the sticker of
talent, right? You're really sharp on
your operating excellence,
the culture of it, the constant
improvement of it, the system behind it
like Kazan, and then you allocate
capital
against your businesses to really hold
them accountable.
I think it's amazing you know in our
portfolio
even though if I were to walk you
through the businesses that First
Service is in which you know Jay Hen's
chairman of and what Collier has where
he's CEO of he's you know largest
shareholder both none of them actually
have these
super sharp
competitive advantage but yet if you
really have studied Jay and you truly
understand
his human capital culture and the and
how he basically attracts and hold
people accountable and his ability to
basically decentralize incentives. So
people are aligned in businesses
everything from you know residential
management of condos
to you know basically roofing and
restoration
and then how they allocate capital. How
they sell things that don't have a path
to be great and how they buy businesses
but they do it in a way where it
actually aligns incentives and constant
with them. It's just super impressive.
The other thing is if we're going to
invest in small companies, those
companies by the time they form them
tend to be pretty large. And so we we
have to basically be pretty sharp at
really understanding other competitive
advantages.
>> You mentioned memo a few times, the
memos you write internally. What have
you learned makes for a fantastic
structure of an investment memo? What
works for you? We're a writing culture
>> because at the end of the day, human
beings are innately human.
And when we are involved in something,
it's very hard to have that executive
distance that you need to do to really
hold yourself accountable to what you
thought and actually hold the companies
accountable
to what you would like them to do.
especially since we really do know the
people we invest in and we invest in
really highquality interesting people
and we're deeply rooting for everyone to
succeed. So, you know, unlike a venture
capital firm or private investing firm,
we have to be able to understand when
things aren't working out so we can sell
them. But just as importantly, if we're
going to go invest in something that has
real risk by Dualingo, we have to
understand when things like Dolingo are
really inflecting and maybe we see and
other people don't do so, we can go buy
more of it. So, we got to be able to do
both. And so when we write an investment
memo,
it's in service of our
investment philosophy, making sure we've
done the work and we can clearly
articulate why is a comp company
competitively advantage or will it be?
What what would it have to do? Why is
this operating culture excellent or why
does it have the seeds of an excellent
operating culture? And why does this
leader think like an owner where they
can basically they make the business
better which we define as gaining market
share through cycle
and we think that they can allocate
internal and external capital such to
both drive more durable growth and also
make their asset base more valuable over
time. And that's that's our investment
memo. But then just as importantly
through both modeling but clearly
spelling out
what we're tracking
we have to then be able to when we do
our quarterly
what we what are really our operating
reviews at durable where we go through
the entire portfolio with the entire
investment team on every single
investment. We have to look how actually
the companies are doing against what we
thought they would do. And then every
single investment at durable
if we own for three years, we actually
do a three-year look back on what we
underwrote and what it did. And actually
that one, you know, it's like so many
things in your career you like wish you
would have known earlier, right? Like,
you know, the great thing about
investing and the great investors to me
actually are better at 70 than they are
at 50. And hopefully, you know, I'm in
my 50s. I'm better than I was when I did
this at 30. And you just learn, right?
You you you understand patterns better.
Hopefully, you remain humble so you
don't actually get, you know, get too
stuck in your ways. You surround
yourself with smarter, better people
both internally, externally. But one of
them is you develop better processes.
And one of the process that we only
started like two years ago was we always
did quarterly KPIs or operating reviews
but we actually didn't go back and look
at an investment that we own for three
years and just say and when we do them
they're so simple. We say three years
ago we thought they would do X
and now they did Y. Now, of course, the
conversation is where was it different
and why? But actually, the preparation
for that meeting is at least on the
written side so simple. It's two slides.
But then of course, what that what we
all we're all human and even though we
try to hold each other accountable, if
you get together every quarter and
something deviates a little bit, you
tend to excuse it. Of course, if it
deviates a little bit for 12 straight
quarters, actually, it's kind of staring
you in the face. And you know, that's
that's why we're such a big believer in
investment memos.
>> I think in 2022, you went and did like a
tour talking to CEOs about the state of
the market and and you know, just
operating principles and things like
this. if you were I'm curious to hear
you reflect on that tour, but even more
interested to hear if you were to do a
tour of every CEO in the portfolio today
and maybe you're doing this actively
what the message would be today that's
different than the message was in 2022.
I felt in 2022 we truly had expertise to
add to the conversation
and that was at the highest level and by
the way I don't say we versus us we all
every CEO I talked to
every investor I talked to and even
Durable who is a fundamental investment
firm that really values stuff on cash
flow never felt money was going to be
free forever actually
had made simplifying assumptions based
on
almost a decade of free money.
Basically, if anyone who has been taught
how to value companies understands at
the end of the day all companies have to
be valued on free cash flow and organic
growth. And you know at the time we got
to a point where 30% of all treasury
bills in the world actually had negative
yields and relative to inflation
actually you were being paid to borrow
which basically means it was logical for
venture capitalists to value companies
and not care about profitability at all.
It was logical for companies in the
public markets to buy lowquality
businesses that could never own own
their cost of capital but use cheap debt
to go do it. It was logical why if you
sat on companies boards you really
wouldn't ask hard questions about
trading off growth, profitability, and
innovation because you didn't have to.
And if you go back to the conversation
we had when we eventually studied
compounding, we went back and we ran
that study in periods. We looked at the
public markets and we asked ourselves a
simple question in the world of
positive real rates which is the entire
history of the US equity market except
for that short period of time, right?
>> Which I don't know if we ever will see
again. Yeah,
>> there on average about 40 compounders
and during the period of time of free
money there was 120. So it was three
times easier to do it. And then we asked
ourselves a simple question, what
patterns
only exist when money's free?
So not surprisingly,
everyone would imagine the pattern of
driving growth and profitability is
perennial and actually works regardless
whether money is free or not. The other
thing that was really interesting, which
was really important to us and gave us
confidence to go buy more of the
Dualingos in 22 when we did this work,
is that if you're a small company,
you don't have to be gap profitable and
you don't even have to have an ROI that
is above your cost of capital, but you
do have to show progress
in your your path towards it. And then
what doesn't work? Well, a company that
doesn't earn financial returns and is
showing no progress. And the other one
that doesn't work, which we don't do do
a lot of, was go buy a lowquality return
business at a high price, but leverage,
you know, really cheap debt. So I felt
strongly
because we had seen cycles before
and because we truly had expertise and
also because we're really are companies
that we invest in long-term partner like
we want to invest in companies that are
private and still own them when they're
public. We want to help them as
transition. I thought we had expertise
and a perspective that many people had
not gotten before. And so, you know, to
reference what this meant was we had
these conversations
with a number of our companies that were
in the situation. And so we we had some
version of this conversation with Aman
at Toast, with Luis at Dualingo, you
know, with Max at a firm. And all of
them were a little different, right? So
like as an example with Louise, you
know, I had dinner with him and the CFO
and his CFO is very talented just like
he is and I just presented them the data
and I, you know, kind of knowing them, I
knew they would have a lot of questions
on it and they asked a lot of good
questions and, you know, the the other
thing I said to them is look, Luis, when
when we invest in your company, you
know, one of the things I always ask
people is, I know, you know, we'll
articulate what we're looking for in
you, but what are you looking for in us?
And one of the things he said is, "I'm
going to be a first-time CEO, and my
sense is you're going to see things
based on your experience that maybe I
don't see because this is new to me."
And I said, "The reason I wanted to have
dinner with you is not because I have
all the answers, but I have a strong
view that you're dominant in what you
do. AI is amazing for you. You know, AI
was just getting started.
You have a very unique human capital
culture, but if you're going to
communicate to people
this strength in the market, it doesn't
mean you need to get to your long-term
margin targets at 30%. But you have to
show progress towards it. With other
companies, we restricted the stock. We
spent more time with them. We helped
them understand what this means. We even
helped a bunch of them um think about
how to communicate
what they were going to do in this path
of this transition to their investors.
And so that was that to me is different
than where we are in 2025 because I felt
we had real expertise there and
something to add to the conversation
that a lot of these executives hadn't
seen before as operators and frankly
many of their board members had come of
age in a period of time where money was
free and frankly probably hadn't been in
involved as many you know durable
companies as as we had been involved in.
You know, the answer is I think probably
we're more back to learning and normal
interaction than we are kind of having a
perspective that, you know, we're dying
to explain to people.
>> I I heard that in your early Tro days
that you were studying media and you
studied 20 or 30 years worth of media
history and condensed it down to a very
small three or four page report. Can you
bring us back to that study and what you
learned about me? I'm obviously
interested in media. I I'm curious what
you learned then about media and how
that has evolved ever since.
>> Yeah, I mean we we tend to want to I
tend to want to do this. I always
believe that if you really understand
something, you can make it super
concise.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> And you know where we are with robotics
and less so with AI, our internal memos
are probably too long because frankly
there's too much unknown and so we can't
be concise. I was very lucky in media
because and it's something we try to do
adurable with people because I was an
outsider
to the media industry. I think I brought
fresh perspective to it. And so when I
when I was assigned to basically be a
media analyst, this is so hard to
believe, but the companies that were
viewed as the darlings of balancing
durability in terms of competitive modes
and having strong growth were companies
like
Comcast,
Time Warner,
Disney, Viacom
And
anyway, I I you know did a bunch of work
on the companies individually and then I
started to really think hard about it
and I started to realize that the best
businesses inside of all of them had
been the cable networks, right? And so
if you go back to if you read about
media back then the entrepreneurs that
you know became the most famous were the
ones that launched cable networks right
John Hendrickx Ted Turner Bob Johnson by
the way John Malone basically backed
almost all these people put the most
invested so John Malone was at the
center of all this and you know
basically for 20 years cable networks
grew 20% with 20 roes
So they were compounders and that's how
you had all these entrepreneurs that had
become, you know, billionaires and
that's how you basically had media
companies that really fought
over a balance of content and
distribution so they could all get their
fair share of these this economics.
And then when you went and you looked at
a bunch of the other industry, it was
like an average ROA business. And that
that was what the whole industry was.
But the whole thing if you really
thought about it a systematic level was
predicated on a closed system
which is so obvious today right so what
the closed system was predicated on
I'm only going to show you the product
or the TV show that you most want to
watch when I can make the most money
when you want to consume consume it. So,
even in a world of linear TV,
even though the most people watched foot
uh watched TV on Sunday night, the worst
shows showed up on Sunday night because
people had spent their money on the
weekend and they were going back to work
and they weren't going to go shopping
and go out and the best shows showed up
on Thursday night. No, friends, the
Cosby Show and in the movie business
obviously there was windowing
and so anyway I was like okay so the
best business is cable networks that's
why we have this fight over content
distribution
and then it's all predicated on this
closed system
and I think I what I believed at the
time which obviously proved to be true
was that this TMT bubble that had
basically burned So many investors
and
no one wanted to think anything good
could come out of at the time actually
had laid the seeds of the end of the
durability of that industry because even
though people lost so much money on
telecom infrastructure and laying the
seeds of broadband what broadband was
enabling eventually was things like
YouTube and Netflix which would break
down this whole comp you know basically
this closed system that was basically
run like an oligop boy.
>> And you know that's basically what my
memo summarized was
the riskiest thing is to own the durable
asset and the safest thing to do is go
by the next standard.
>> Lots of people will say investing is an
apprenticeship business and you yourself
have said the best investors are better
at 70 than at 50 than at 30. I would
love to hear a lot about what you've
learned about selecting great people,
you know, when you don't know them as
well and then making them better as part
of Durable over time because that's
obviously, you know, that's going to
determine how well you do as a business.
So, it's a a critical component. How do
you do it? One of the major goals I had
with Durable when we started Durable was
to actually build an investment firm
that would be better the day I left and
the initial partners left than when we
were the best while we were there.
>> So I thought really hard about that.
>> It's a hell of a goal.
>> And I went and I talk about doing a
tour. I went on a listening tour and I
went to see firms that had a period of
greatness and some of them didn't get it
done and then some of them actually
accomplished that goal. Part of it is
how we have structured durables
incentives and you know the whole ethos
we have internally. It was really a
reinforcement of
this goal about people. So, you know,
you spent time with our team and
when you look at the senior people at
Durable,
you know, Nook Day, one of my partners,
incredibly [snorts] talented woman, you
know, she started working with me at 26.
You know, she had never worked in the
investment business before. You know,
she had finished hers finished her
masters at Oxford and she was basically
working at a nonprofit. you know, Corey
Schaw, he started working with me either
21 or 22 right out of, you know, William
and Mary. And then we, you know, we have
a host of other people who, you know,
really came out of liberal arts, you
know, not not like rigorous. I had to
work at a bank at an investment firm or
you know if I want anytime I interview
with people I have to tell people since
I was five which is basically what you
have to do nowadays to go work at a most
investment firms or banks you got to
tell people that when I was ever since
the age of five I wanted to do exactly
what you're doing but all jokes aside
we really believe that you have to be an
expert in what you do develop into it
there's a whole matrix we have about the
development of security analysis
excellence and how it's a journey right
we we do our reviews based on it I tell
people look on this sheet this is a
journey I'm probably the most
experienced security analyst at the firm
and I still have a journey to go here I
got to get better and then we also
believe at the same time that the
youngest person in the room on our
investment team actually can have the
most valuable perspective right so we
have an investment team of 12 people and
in my career career. A lot of times the
best insight comes from the most junior
person who's looking at something with a
fresh set of eyes. You know, early in a
Nook's career when I was looking at
consumer companies, she she really
helped understand a millennial mindset
and then we did a lot of work against it
and I think that led to some, you know,
great investments both in the public
private markets, right? We were, you
know, we were private investors in, you
know, Door Dash, Sweet Green, Orby
Parker, you know, some of the leading
companies of the day.
So anyway, what what do we look for? We
look for deep intellectual curiosity.
If you don't want to constantly learn,
that's just not who we are. We want
people who really want to learn. We we
want to we want people who compete but
want to compete as a team sport. So, you
know, we have a lot of athletes. We have
a lot of people who work their way
through school, you know, financially,
right? We want people who um are
resilient ourselves, right? I mean, all
of us have periods of time where we get
things wrong. And then if you're going
to pass our style of investing in a
world where the the market has such
volatility, even on good companies like
call yours, you have to live with the
fact that, you know, sometimes your
performance isn't going to be good.
Sometimes you got to be resilient and
you know you realize you're right,
believe in it and sometimes you got to
realize you're wrong. Right? And all
this is underlied obviously by a level
of desire to be excellent at what you do
but make your colleagues better.
>> And you know this is unique to durable
and we're just different here, right? So
when people think about being excellent
at durable, they have to think about
being excellent in what they do and they
have to be excellent at making their
colleagues better.
>> It's got to be both. You know, we're an
and culture. And then obviously we
talked about why what we do is is just
different. Our ability to invest in
Dualingo as a private company and still
own it today. Our ability to invest in
Figma when it's, you know, a $30 million
company and the same person follows a
day. We have to have people who are both
good at analyzing private companies that
are early stage growth companies and
then understand scale durable growth
companies and understand the subtleties
and the nuances of private markets and
the relationships and the way governance
work but also understand truly being a
minority investor.
>> How the public markets
>> in in practice that second piece which
is you're expected to make your
colleagues better. How does that
actually work in practice? Like what do
people literally do? Is it is it, you
know, squishy know it when you see it
type stuff or is it more structured than
that?
>> Look, I'll give you the measurement and
then I'll give you how it really works.
When we do 360 reviews at Durable, we
actually ask everyone to give feedback
on what their colleagues did to make it
better. And it's not I mean it's
important and we're we're a really
pleasant culture. We have high quality
people, but it's not a Nook helped me
this year and she's a nice person.
>> It's
if if you're following Door Dash, it's
that a Nook helped me understand Door
Dash because of her knowledge about
Agentic Commerce on Shopify really
helped me. Or when we did an investment
review as an investment team, she took a
special interest and she followed up
with me. or she went to a meeting that
was important and gave me her
perspective. Right? So, we we ask people
to basically point to specific
investments
that that they have. The second thing we
do
is I'm one of these people who believe
we want to have great people. We have to
attract great people. We have to
basically allow great people to become
great and provide the environment. But I
also believe um we have to have the
right amount of process that basically
enables true excellence and creativity.
So from an hours perspective probably do
less or the same amount as other
investment firms but I think the impact
is really high. So I'll give you a
simple example. We we do the same
investment meeting everyone else does on
Mondays, but we do an additional meeting
where we go through ideas that we're
looking at and we gate them together.
And so we're going to go spend more time
on an investment. Everyone's in the room
when we decide to go do it, right? And
so people start to learn what is it
that's a good use of their time, what's
not a good use of a time. And if it is,
if we're going to go look at something,
who and I got to go answer these couple
questions in the next sta stage of
investment due diligence. Is there a
colleague here who can help me do it? We
get together on Fridays. And by the way,
we do it in the office. We have
together, we have lunch as an investment
team and we talk about insights. So this
is not you don't prepare for this
meeting, but this would be, hey, I had
an interesting conversation with a CEO
or or I was re I maybe this week, I'm
sure we'll talk about it. I listened to
open AI dev day and this is was what I
thought was interesting or maybe I
thought about this. Does anyone think
about this? So we're trying to look for
lateral insights to learn for each other
and then you know for sure we do
investment reviews where we do deep dive
on stocks. You know multiple people look
at this. I learned this from you know
you know you had Kelly on the firm Lone
Pine. Really? I I learned that from
Steve. I'm sure Lone Pine still does it.
We um we do KPIs where we get we call
KPIs operate interviews where we go
through the whole portfolio and every
colleague reports to everyone else how
they did and we do this not not to
basically be a session while you're
great or I got it wrong. It's more like
here's clinically what happened and
everyone can
>> learn from it but also lend their lens
because it's not great bad you know a
lot of times it's subtle this thing was
good this thing was mixed people can
have their lens and then you know we
basically um get together twice a year
and and we we have off sites you can
probably tell we have a lot of fun at
Durable but our our off sites don't look
like other people's off sites we we used
to do team building activities
>> and now KPI reviews
>> and now we don't do them right and and
uh why don't we do them
>> because actually we're a group of people
who likes learning from each other and
like sharing insights and the activity
we're going to get together for three
days it's going to be we're going to
basically you know do look backs we're
going to look at reviews we're going to
go study an industry we're going to go
talk to a CEO and then we're going to
all learn from something such that we
can all make each other better
>> it must be very powerful when you're
making an initial projection on a KPI or
something to know that in the six months
and year and two years and three years
hence you're going to be it's going to
be looked back upon like you probably
sharpen your pencil a little bit.
>> You do but you know I think what's
special about our culture and I always
say I always tell this to people
before they join and then you know look
we we tend to hire young people and
develop them but if you've been anywhere
else you don't believe us. People think
when we get together and we do KPIs or
do three-year look backs
or we'll do a session sometimes where
we'll look at reinitiations in the
portfolio, things we sold before and
then we bought back. And a lot of times
if we did that, why did we sell it in
the first place? Maybe we got it wrong.
We don't do any of this in the spirit of
you made a mistake. You know, this is
like an environment where you should
critique yourself negatively. It's like
no, we should be intellectually honest
just like we want our executives to be.
We want we want to be clinical in what
we did, but then we want to do in the
spirit to try to learn from it and get
better or
put our data out there so we can learn
from our colleagues who might have a
valuable perspective to make us better.
And if we can take the attitude of
intellectual, honest, self-improvement,
humility, that like that makes us
better.
>> When you were doing your tour to learn
about the franchises that were better at
the end of the founders run um and those
that didn't make it, what what what did
you learn? I won't mention the names of
those who didn't make it because you
know the thing about um not making it is
a little bit like our investment memos
when we invest in great people who are
trying to build companies. A lot of them
do great things and they just don't make
it right. I mean as you know there's a
lot of
in success there's a lot of good
fortune.
>> Yeah. So
I think what I learned was if you don't
architect the system on day one
for success
then you end up with a lot of conflicts
that sometimes undermine what you could
have accomplished. We try really really
hard at durable not to make compromises.
If we go hire someone on the investment
team,
we want to go hire someone who one day
could be a senior partner or one day go,
you know, basically manage, you know,
the capital base, right? Or if we were
to ever launch a new product, go launch
that product. We're looking for people
who can be as good as I am or Nook is or
Cory is or Katherine. We want great
people. And so for sure you usually
start in our parliament as an associate,
right? So you're you're going to start
supporting someone and you're truly
going to be an apprentice in their way.
And then even when you become an analyst
the first three years, you're probably
doing real analytical work, but we're
probably um you're early in your
journey. We don't want to hire you. We
don't want to promote you unless we
think you can actually one day lead lead
the investment organization and drive
the firm. And the reason I feel that's
so important is we just don't have that
many
>> just like just like the companies. If
you don't believe it can get better, you
don't do it. [laughter]
>> Right? So that's hard, right? The other
thing that's hard
about it is, you know, when I when I
went and looked at these firms,
I do think there is a level of growth
you have to pursue, right? So, durable
is a performancedriven organization. We
break every tie in dri in pursuit of
investment excellence. We haven't
really, you know, market ourselves or
try to get new investments since 2022.
And why is that? Well, I think we're
performing really, really well. But I
just basically believe
markets are pretty full. And we're a
long only firm. We're not going to
short. We're not going to really try to
time markets. But if if you're going to
be our investor over time and we're
going to do well by you, we should
probably take more of your capital when
on balance the entry point is lower than
higher, right? So, we're going to break
everything. We're we're we're going to
really understand if we're going to do
less what it means to be able on the
public side to be able to own meaningful
positions and companies to really be
able to trade if there's quarterly
volatility such that we can buy more
when things are attractive
you know everything that if we're only
going to do you know maybe five I think
since 2023 we've done 14 new private
investments so we've back to doing five
a year if we're only going to go do five
and we're going to start relatively
small. A lot of times we we start by
investing 10 or $20 million.
It's going to make an impact, you know,
for our investors, right? We got to be a
performance-driven organization and for
our entrepreneurs. We got to be able to
do exactly
what we've done for Louise. We have to
be able to do for Dylan, what we're what
I think we're doing for Dylan. We have
to be able to support Canva and Bending
Spoons them and the next generation of
those.
So we got to go do that. You know, with
that said, I do believe that these
investment firms that have persisted
actually have done a good job of at some
point in time while the while the
initial team was at its you know high
performance and so had plenty of runway
actually started to you know prove that
other people could you know be
participate in the investing process
right and so you know that's something
that you know we we started to do with
you know internally with with how we
approach the private markets and we got
to we got to over time kind of flush
that out.
>> What is your pitch to all the great and
emerging private companies out there
that they should soon or eventually be
publicly traded?
>> Yeah, this is controversial, right? You
know, I this is why I love what we do
because first of all, the world keeps on
adapting. And when I first started
investing in private companies, it was
highly controversial
that any latestage private company would
be valued at at above a billion dollars.
[laughter] Right? You know, we we talked
about Workday earlier. When we led the
investment round at at workday at $2
billion, everyone thought we were crazy.
We invested in Twitter at a billion
dollars, I was, you know, you know,
severely publicly critiqued. Right now,
now people look back at that and it's
just like, wow, the idea that you would
have a billion dollar private company,
that's not even newsworthy anymore.
What has changed obviously in the
private markets is that you can be a
growth company
that loses money continues or be
marginally profitable and and not only
be valued at a billion dollars, you can
be valued at a hundred billion dollars.
And there's even a view among and I
think it's thoughtful. I'm not
criticizing it. There's even a view that
you can be an indef indefinite
private company for for like SpaceX
m maybe maybe
Elon is correct and SpaceX never has to
go public and that's that's really only
happened in the last 5 years and some
people correctly pointed out that for
this might be an incredible path for
certain companies right and by the way I
think there's some truth in it right So
in the ideal situation,
you're not beholden to short cycle
performance.
So you can basically
drive growth, innovation, and at the
right point in time, profitability and
discipline in your business, but you can
do it on a time frame that lines up with
your individual business or your own
competitive reality and not have to deal
with the public markets. I get it. I
actually think it's very thoughtful.
Here's the good news about life. We're
going to actually run an experiment and
we're going to we're going to actually
know the answer, right?
I'm not saying that that's wrong.
Here's [snorts] what I think. I first of
all, I don't think it's for everyone,
but I believe the path to building
um a compounder or even a what some
people would say a generational company
through the public markets is,
you know, proven
and if you understand how to do it
actually very clear what you do. Let's
go back to the compounder studies and
then I'll give you an a real life
example or two.
When you look at these compounders that
were 6x companies in 10 years, the 40 of
them, the average one of them has a
period of time where the stock goes down
50%. And it doesn't go down 50%
only when the market is down 20. They go
down 50%
when they basically go through trans
transition. So, I'll give you an example
for my career. Netflix
uh started as a basically a DVD mail
business.
And to Reed's credit, he realized that
streaming was the future and he wanted
to tackle this offensively.
Now, like any transition, it's a little
messy, right? So, first of all, he tried
to split the company, right? He
announced
>> I remember. Yeah. the he was gonna have
Netflix and Flickster. He had to go back
because he violated customer trust and
churn spiked. And then the other thing
that happened was, you know, in that
period of time, you know, the stock he
was buying back stock at $280 and the
stock went to $70. And, you know, I
remember this really well. We, when I
was a Tro, I led a pipe to basically
recapitalize Netflix, right? And Reed's
a great entrepreneur for a lot of
reasons. And that I remember calling him
on a Saturday and saying, "Hey, Reed,
look, I could be reading this wrong, but
there is a scenario here where the
market's right and you have to raise
money." And he said, "Henry, what are
you even talking about?" And I said,
"Reed,
I'm a huge admirer of what you're doing.
I believe in what you're doing. I
believe it's offensive, but I also
believe it's a tough financial
transition. You got to go from a
variable cost business model where the
studios rent you uh DVDs on
um you on a usage basis to a fixed cost
business model where you got to write
big checks to people like Discovery and
Disney to basically acquire content plus
the stuff he hadn't launched any
original but you're investing in
original programming. And if you run
this scenario that I'm doing on the
potential subscriber
losses in this transition,
you're going to run out of cash or
you're going to at least the market's
going to think you're going to run out
of cash and your stock is going to go
down a lot more than $70. To Reed's
credit, he said, "I have not thought
about this as much as I thought should.
Let's talk tomorrow. I'll get the CFO on
the phone. You go through your scenario.
We'll go through ours
and I can learn." And look, at the end
of the day, when we showed it our data,
he's like, "Look, I don't agree with
your scenario on subs, but yours is not
out of the realm of reasonable
thought process." And he ended up
raising a pipe. We put when I was at Tro
in half of it and I did that and then
TCV J Hog, you know, did the other half.
So this to me is like the classic
example of a marketleading company
embracing a transition.
They obviously ended up winning, right?
We did that pipe at like $4.5 billion.
Look at the market cap of Netflix today.
And but yeah, it was a little messy,
but you know, it worked out well. So
what what does the public market do? I
think first of all it sent a signal to
Netflix
that actually
you're under a real transition here and
maybe your assumptions on your financial
model
are,
you know, you need to have a wider fan
of scenarios. Two, if you work at
Netflix, you could say, well, you had
the pain of seeing your stock go from
280 to $70. By the way, people think
that was a great investment. And I
always point out to people a year later
it was in the 50s, right? So a year
later did it look like a great
investment, [laughter] right? But
I think what it does is it allowed now
you have to do this properly. You have
to be resilient. You have to have a
culture. But it allowed Reed to
basically align external and internal
investments and actually get his entire
se senior team aligned on what they
needed to do, but also realigned on
incentives.
And so I point out to people actually I
believe to build a great company you
have to balance growth, profitability
and innovation. You know I talked
earlier about if you're a growth company
you don't have to trade on a PE but you
have to show that path back to the
conversation with Dingo and Inoto and a
firm in that transition and you're
better off doing it sooner rather than
later. And two, if you got to go realign
your internal team, well, actually
realigning people to the right mark,
it's actually really helpful. And the
people who want to reup reup and the
people who do it actually get handsomely
rewarded and the people who don't
obviously can move on. And I think
that's really really good culturally.
Could I correctly boil this down to the
positive value of daily marks and the
depth of public markets and their
investors that those two things in
combination are sort of the the reason
why being public might be valuable
relative to the private alternative?
>> But I I think I I probably because I use
the Netflix example when they were fully
formed and they were a discipline
company. I also think that putting
discipline into a company
when your corporate culture
has already formed and may I don't want
to use the word stasis but at a certain
scale it's hard to change is not good
right so I actually think to run a
company well
you have to be in the and business not
the or business you have to drive growth
measured to buy market share in the
short term. You have to drive innovation
or allocate capital well to position
yourself better for the future. And you
have to basically drive profitability
partially. Profitability allows you to
basically invest. But part profitability
actually forces you to drive efficiency
and discipline through the organization
and and make sharp decisions on capital.
And what I always tell people about this
is you should think about your CFO's
function not as a policeman but actually
as someone who basically sets standards
that forces you to make sharp decisions.
And as we I think people realize this
more today than they did a couple years
ago. Actually a lot of times when you
prioritize and you focus on what really
matters actually agility comes in and
excellence come in you accomplish more.
And when you try to do too much and
essentially investment has no cost, a
lot of times it's lays and it's not
sharp.
>> I feel like we've covered so much
ground. I'm curious if there's any other
ingredient in Durable story or your
story that that we haven't covered that
you feel like is essential to
understanding you and and what you're
doing and why you're doing it.
>> I think we want to have fun and we
actually root for everyone. The reason I
say this is I'm a huge sports fan. A
huge sports fan. And um I love studying
sports. And to me there's two types of
like competitive greatness and they both
work.
There's Michael Jordan
who basically was such a fierce
competitor
that
essentially if you didn't rise to his
level,
you know, he like drove you out of
there, right? I mean, and it works,
right? And those Bulls showed up
with a chip on their shoulder every game
and it was amazing and they were great.
And then there are the people who play
basketball and they say, "This game is
great
and we want to we want to have fun and
we want to elevate the game and we want
to win." And the people who
compete with us, we think they're great
and we're rooting for them. Now, of
course, if we're going to play against
them, we're going to be competitive on
that day and we're going to win. But we
want to actually have fun and actually
we believe everyone can win. And I think
that's like if you that's durable,
right? And I think
that's really important to me, right?
Like when we invest in people, that's
the kind of person we want to invest in.
When when you know when we do, we're
public market investors at our core. If
we have to, and we did, if we because we
think it's right for our clients, have
to go sell a firm, which we did because
we believe from a riskreward standpoint,
we have to go do it. We're going to go
do it. You know, I always say it's not
our money, it's our investors money. We
got to be fiduciari first. But we when
we did that
want to see Max win, and we never
stopped talking to Max. In fact, I think
he would tell you some of the things in
our relationship where he learned from
me more than I learned from him was
actually in the period of time where we
didn't own his stock
because we don't think about it as a
stock. We think about as we want to see
Max win and even the um investors I
don't think about competing against
investors. I mean, there's so many
investors who I respect and honestly if
they're doing their craft well and
they're high quality people, we want to
see them win.
And
that just that is so core to the way we
deal with people and the way we, you
know, hold ourselves accountable.
>> Is that like the uh Steph Curry Wizards
at their peak approach to to contrast
against the Jordan approach or
something?
>> Yeah. I mean, that's exactly how I think
about the Warriors, right? Like Steve
Curry I think is amazing. John Wooden
amazing. I think John Wooden is the
greatest coach of all time. Like think
about what John Wooden wanted from his
players. He wanted them to be great
people. He didn't necessarily believe
they all had the same modes. I mean,
Kareem Abdul Jabbar and Bill Walton, you
know, maybe the two greatest college
basketball players of all time in their
eras, but definitely in the top five,
totally different people. And he
accepted that, but he wanted them to be
great, not only as basketball players,
but as people. and he was measuring UCLA
against that. And frankly, of course,
the output of that is, you know, the
success they had. And to me, that was
the
>> that was the Lakers with Magic Johnson,
right? Like you watch those guys play
basketball
>> and they just were having fun and they
were elevating the game. I remember
going and seeing the Warriors,
you know, when Steph and Draymond and
Clay were just kind of coming up
and
the energy of those people was amazing
and they transformed the game, right?
They changed the three-point shot and
then of course when you see greatness
like that, you got to go learn from it.
And of course, I've gone and understand
the way Steve Kerr is
>> and how he cares about competitiveness,
but he cares about mindfulness. He cares
about fun. If you're going to be a new
warrior, he's going to actually go visit
you in your hometown to truly understand
who you are as a person, right? And
I mean, that to me is great. And that's
that to me is part of what being durable
is, right? It's a wonderful excuse to
ask you my traditional closing question.
What is the kindest thing that anyone's
ever done for you?
>> You know, I prepared for this one,
Patrick, because I do listen to your
show. So, I have to say it's my mom. You
know, my parents got divorced when I was
young, and my mom, you know, really
raised me, and I I I learned so much
from her.
And um the thing my mom did for me that
you know in hindsight
was
so wise and proved to be so kind was
I um took a leave of absence from
Harvard to go work on a campaign
for a state representative running for
US House of Representatives
and she was totally supportive of that.
And then he was expected to lose. And in
a long story, I became his campaign
manager and ended up winning.
>> You were 19?
>> Yeah, I was 19. And I came to her and I
said, "Mom,
I want to go um to Washington DC and be,
you know, chief of staff for, you know,
Congressman Deutsch or Congressman
Deutsch." And she said, "Wow, you really
want to do that?" And I said, "Yes." And
I said, "In order to do that, I can't
take another leave of absence from
Harvard. They don't let you do that. I
have to drop out." And she she was not
on the Bill Gates or I guess future
Zuckerberg belief in the world. It was
not her ethos, but she was really
accepting. She was very very thoughtful
and listened to me. And she said,
"Henry, if that's what you really want
to do, it sounds like very thoughtful.
It's a it's a very adult decision. And
if you're going to go do that, um, I'm
always here for you. I love you. I'll
always be your mother. You come to me
with anything. But what it practically
means is you need to be responsible for
basically paying for your education,
right? Because you say you want to go
back there. I'm going to take you at
your word, but you know, you got to go
do this now as an adult because you're
making a real adult decision. And
that was in, you know, and I tell this
story to my two sons because I think it
was frankly
very
important, but also kind
because it it taught me that if you're
going to go make major decisions, you
have to be thoughtful about them
and people will support you, but you
have to be able to basically be
responsible for the consequences.
>> An amazing, beautiful story. Different
flavor than lots of these answers that I
get. I love it. Henry, thank you so much
for your time.
>> Thank you. [music]